The Joe Rogan experience.
This mushroom has figuring to be very prominently important for
saving, uh, bees.
And that's where our research has been astonishingly, um,
interesting lately. And where is that thing that you had brought in?
What is that? This is on there. This is, is, um, I, so,
so to get some context to this, you know,
I think shainistically mushrooms, plants,
animals become important because of a plurality of multiplicity of benefits.
This is one example, not only revolutionized warfare,
not only allow for the portability of fire for us to save ourselves in the
coldness. And, you know, we migrated into Europe from Africa. Um,
not only do beekeepers use it for smoking,
but fly fisherman use it also our drying flies,
but we have found that this mushroom is extremely powerful for reducing viruses,
that harm bees. And, and we are,
it's been described today in CNN, a be, uh, a insect apocalypse,
40% of, of be of insects or under threat. Um,
this just came out and this is a really an all hands on deck moment.
Um, but I'm optimistic cuz I think we can find solutions in nature. So, um,
with my colleagues and when I was here before I talked to my work with the bio
shield bioen program and these wood cons are very strong and antiviral
properties against, uh, flu viruses and herpes, et cetera.
I used these ideas and actually I had a waking dream <laugh>
and I realized that the bees were being infected by mites, uh,
with viruses and the deformed wing virus in particular as the worst virus.
And so I contacted Washington state university.
We started doing some research and I'm really,
really happy because I love skeptics who become my supporters.
We published in nature, only 7% of the articles submitted the nature,
get published.
The nature publication ecosystem to this day are articles in the top.
1% of all articles ever published and then nature your publication ecosystem.
Now that's phenomenal because that's the most credible scientific, uh,
journal in the world.
There it is right that extracts of polypo mushroom mycelia reduced viruses and
honeybees and the, this mushroom,
the Amadou reduces the deformed wing virus 800 times to one with one
treatment and sh and then the rayhi mushroom myceium
reduces the lake Sinai virus more than 45,000 to one.
Now these are wood cons that grow in trees and we all grew up with a WITY theoo,
but no one made the connection before me,
apparently that bees are attracted to rotted wood because of immunological
benefit. So Amadou and Rahi mushrooms we found,
and we published in this article that high significance.
And I think the reason why this article is not top 1% of all nature articles,
is that I've been able to present the theory with proof.
Now that a natural product can have a broader bio shield of benefits than a pure
pharmaceutical up to this time,
there's been no agents to reduce viruses and bees.
Now the defformed wing virus is being vectored by the viralmite came in
1984 and it injects viruses in the bees.
And so it's like a dirty syringe and these viruses debilitate the bees and
shorten their, their ability to fly. Now, look at that poor Bumble bee. Oh wow.
That's crazy. I mean that I have,
that is so sad because that mummble bee can't fly.
Now bees can pollinate up to a thousand flowers a day and the average
flight time of like honey bees with used to be nine days,
a thousand flowers a day, every Allmond you eat was visited by a B.
So one B can pollinate a thousand flowers a day,
nine days was our pollinationination flight time.
Now it's been re shortened to four days. So we lost by 50%.
And the CNN article that we just showed, uh,
in China now they're hand pollinating flowers. Yeah. Know, with paint, brushes,
a paint of apples. Yeah. So apples, cherries, almond strawberries, because of,
of the lack of bees because the absence of bees. So it's really, it's,
it's all hands on deck. Um, this is, you know,
I'm really optimistic about the future because we have solutions in nature that
we can now amplify and be able to deploy.
And so one of my inventions and I'm giving these away the 10,000 of
these for free,
I've come up with a citizen scientist beef feeder that puts these extracts
into sugar water, and we have a, it sign up, uh, sheet up.
It's all it's for free fungi.com/bees. Um,
and we're gonna give away the first 10,000 of these, um,
and this basically allows, uh, citizen scientists to help wild bees,
um, because wild BES are giving about 80% of the benefits.
And if you scroll down, there's a really, we just got the CGI done.
If you go all the way down and then click on the click on that video.
And we just, um, so here's the bee feeder, and this is.
Available on YouTube folks. It says be mushroomed, feeder, be mushroomed,
all one word, uh, and then feeder.
Yeah. And I'll watch, that's the bees visiting and they're taking the,
the sugar, sugar water look how much they're sucking out of.
It. The little greedy bastards.
Yeah. And I that's crazy how it goes away so quickly.
And this is at maze and bees are better at navigating mazes.
And so you can see the bees going in and out.
My grandson who was afraid of bees was really fascinated by this. So I,
I got 'em to do this.
And so these are something that we are gonna make these available all over.
And then I I'm gonna create vertical gardens in, in apartment bill. Oh.
So could BES, when fly up 200 feet, you create ladders then ecological ladders.
And then this is why the citizen scientists all over the world can take action
to be able to help bees from collapsing. And then you station these, um,
in neighborhoods for Bumble bees for other types of bees.
And then we have it with a wifi enabled device with solar panels.
And then we upload into the cloud, all this data about be pollllination visits.
Wow. So we can create a metric on the baseline of be pollination services.
So if you see a bees that are declining in sudden below a baseline
in Oklahoma, two years ago,
84% of the beehives died.
Now think if you're a cattle rancher and you lost 84% of your cattle.
So the idea is to help bees immune system and the,
if we create baselines with beef feeders upload the data,
and this becomes a new form of internet because they have wififiability.
So it's a distributed network as well, but they, where is the wifi on that?
Well, we don't have, this is in development right now.
We're working with a very, very large computer company.
Who's making all the instrumentation and they're into big data.
So we have a solar panel going in here. We have, uh, blue, uh,
L E D lights that bees are at attracted to blue light.
And they'll count the number of bees going in and out instead of bees are only
flying that daytime. We don't need a battery. And so the solar, uh,
power will then upload the data into the cloud. They'll create mega data sets.
And then we can look at Africa, Indonesia,
how is it gonna upload into the cloud? Was it using, is it used the LT LTE? Oh,
so it's using like a cellular system, a cellular system or low frequency,
long range, um, communication systems. Can we, can we help? Can we contribute?
Is there's a way that this podcast can help a lot. It, this,
I want to enable people with solutions that they can teach their children the
importance of natural systems and they can take action.
This seems like a great one. I mean, I love this. I idea I it's awesome.
I can afford to give away 10,000. Um,
I talked to this computer company that everybody knows,
but they asked me not to use their name and they asked, how many do we need?
I said about 10 billion, billion, billion,
and because this, but I will do up to my capacity.
And then I'm hoping that, you know, we're gonna give these away for free.
And then eventually we'll create networks of hubs where I have now
40 patents on this. Um, and helping bees survive from these extracts,
but not in Indonesia, not in India, not in Africa, not in China, not in Japan.
I've open source of, for most of the world. Mm I'm basically commercial.
I'm gonna commercial. Is it so the haveves can help the have nots? Mm and I,
I think a lot of people want to help. And if you,
and we're thinking about different ways of doing this, I'm open to all ideas.
But the idea is to get maybe one person to sponsor 10 other people.
They have a distributed network, their own social media community,
where they end up, we getting, um, so schools,
we will open source the code for 3d printers. Uh,
so that's really important for schools. So the code's gonna be open sourced. Um,
but it, then if somebody wanna make millions of these and sell them, of course,
you know, I wouldn't be happy with that. They have to work with me,
but individually we can empower individuals with and schools to have the open
source, the 3d printing codes.
We just have to make it trendy to have one of these in your house. Like, look,
I'm helping. I'm, I'm helping the bees. Hey, if we just did that,
it would really make a big difference. I know that's a,
a gross way to look at it, but, but.
My grand that works. My grandson, Kai is a example.
He Wass shuttering in fear being coming near to this. And I just, my friend,
Dr. Steve shepherd, entomologist taught me something about bees. I didn't know,
bees are moving so fast and we look like we're moving slow,
but if we move really slow, the bees think you're a statue. Uh,
and so the idea, and so my grandson, and, um, Akay said,
look at this and you could see underneath,
you can see the bees going in and out. I said to move really slow.
And then he got fascinated watching the bees. So he overcame his fear of bees.
He was excited that he's helping bees survive.
Now we've created something intergenerationally and saving.
The bees is the number one,
one bridge concept between conservatives and liberals.
Everyone wants to save the bees. That's number one,
it's a number one bridge issue. Wow. Between amendding the fence.
So to speak across the political and social divide,
everybody wants to save the bees mm-hmm <affirmative>. So this is something,
this is an actionable solution. And the, the, you know,
the scientific data out there is pretty disturbing, you know,
75% of flying insects in the past 27 years.
And a report from Germany that just came out, have disappeared. Now, many,
many of your listeners are out in the country. You know,
I grew up in the country.
I remember all the bug splatter used to have against your windshield.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> you don't see that anymore because the,
the insects are dying because the exposure to pesticides
monoculture, and when you have monoculture,
you have what's called pollination deserts. When you have lots of biodiversity,
lots of plants and, and diversity,
the plants are pollinating at different times of the season.
When you do to a monoculture, all the plants like almonds, yeah.
Are all produce flowers all at once. And then it there's no pollen available.
So the immune system of the bees due to factory farming,
loss of habitat, deforestation, glyhosphase, you know,
heavy metals pollution, all those things are co-factors.
But the nail in the coffin is by far these viruses.
And so even logically empowering and supporting the immune system ease then
gives the bees the opportunity or the ability to be able to survive longer,
do more pollination. Is there a specific source.
Of these viruses that they can isolate? Or is it, are these a.
New thing? Well, actually there's a, um,
there's a slide that just shows the pandemic spread of these viruses, uh,
throughout the world that came from Asia. Uh, and it's now a global pandemic.
Uh, all bees in the world are,
are infected with these viruses because when they infected honeybee,
for instance, visits the flower,
it leaves viral particles in the flower and the flower,
and then a wild bumblebee becomes it, visits it, it becomes infected. Mm.
So there is a UN unfortunate. I don't wanna use the word perfect storm.
It's a terrible storm of co-factors. And because, you know,
80% of the benefit that farmers receive is from wild bees. Right.
But we can't count them. And, you know, I have, I have, uh, beehives and,
and what happens to, to collapse. You go out on Monday, the bees are happy.
You go out on Thursday, they're all gone. I mean, it's, it's really,
it's that quick, that quick.
And it's not like there's hundreds of dead bees around your beehive.
They're just gone. And there can be hundreds of pounds of honey and the bees,
you know, they they're gone. So.
They go off somewhere to the.
Die.
What happens is because the newly hatch be are called nurse bees and the
nurse bees take care of the baby be, but when the colony senses,
there's not enough pollen in food to support the BR and the colony,
the nurse bees are prematurely recruited to go out and find pollen.
So they abandon the babies and then the veroamites are UN,
they justs UN uncontrolled, and they start injecting viruses.
And so there are, are there,
co-factors just like when you get an infection from a viral infection,
you can get bacterial infections. And so there's a,
there's a cascade of opportunistic infections as they immun immunology
decreased because these viruses, so wasn't there.
Um, a C contributing factor that had to do with cell phones as well.
I actually, I'm really glad you brought that up. Um,
this is a contributing factor.
I have not seen convincing evidence as a hypothesis.
That's not fully flushed out. Um,
there are some people quite adamant in their belief in this, but I'm,
I'm driven by science and data. I can, uh, the,
the rhythms, the frequency of the high, uh,
of cell phones is an argument that's made.
It is not in the same co-sign wave of the wavelengths that we
experience in nature. And so this is disruptive.
I understand that I'm still on the fence.
I like to see really strong data and scientific evidence of that. Um,
but it's a hypothesis that needs to be tested. That's why we're looking also at,
at a low frequency, long range communication systems. Mm.
Um, I, you know, I think I told you this story, if I didn't, I apologize. Uh,
when we were on fear factor, we had a beast done.
We had to cover these people in bees and, uh,
a local bee colony flew in to check out what was going on.
And those bees and the bees that were brought there,
met in the sky and worked it out. And the beekeeper told us, okay,
we have to shut down and everybody's gotta back outta here.
So we had to shut down everything and back out for like about an hour,
at least a half hour, why these bees communicated with each other.
So they're flying a giant swarm of them flying in the eye, in the, in the air,
trying to figure out why, Hey, what are you guys here for? What are you doing?
Why are you in our neighborhood? Like, oh, we're not moving in.
We're just filming a TV show. Like they had to work it out. That is so unusual.
It was really weird. That's extraordinary, you know? Yeah. So when a new queen,
uh, splits from a hive, you know, uh, colony,
they then take a big group of them with 'em.
So it's all about protecting the queen.
I just don't understand how they worked it out. There was no fight to the death.
There was no nothing. They just sort of worked it out.
And the other bees took off and the, that were there, came back to their high,
their little colony.
Yeah. That's, there's a lot of this. This is also well that's,
I'm glad you mentioned that because there's also speaks to what's called be
drift. And so when we publish our article in nature, scientific reports,
actually I think the data is understated because 10 to,
up to 20% of bees will drift from one colony to another.
So we had treatment colonies and we had treated colonies. Well,
because 10 to 20% of the bees in the treated colonies went to the control
colonies.
We actually had diluted the differential because we had crossed, um,
you know, movement of control bees and beehive versus treated bees.
And so when we actually, I think another,
some of my other co-authors thinks we actually have understated the data,
but when you look at the P values of significance, um, you know,
the extraordinary P is less than 0.0, zero nine.
And that for scientists is an extraordinarily significant data set that is
clearly showing the evidence that these extracts help the immunity of bees and
help them be able to survive and, and do a better job. That's awesome.
And it's crazy that it's just a, a natural mushroom, but it,
it makes sense what you're saying that they built their beehives in these
rotting trees, knowing that these fun guy were there. I,
I somehow, or another being attracted to it.
You know, the,
I like to say the first five seconds that I got the first patent award,
my ego did swell. And then 10 seconds later, I said, are you,
freakinggging kidding. We're in Neanderthals of nuclear weapons.
How could I be the first one to have discovered that bees benefit from mycillium
immunologically, but there's no what's called prior art. There's no evidence.
And I mean, think of that.
We have the intelligence of nature underneath our feet,
and this is something we need to tap into.
And the fact that we can show a natural product, you know,
if you had HPV HIV,
and you went into a doctor 12 days after having one treatment of these extracts
and your virus has dropped 45,000 to one, any physician would say,
wow, you're doing really well. And this is what we'll be able to see. Now, the,
now we've been trying to find what's called the mode of action.
How are these viruses actually being reduced?
Puntively our strongest hypothesis now is as providing essential
nutrients that are important for the immune system to activate gene sequences,
then are that a to active viruses and give a more hostfensive immunity
of protection of a further infection. Now, does.
This, uh, work with humans as well?
Like chaga is supposed to be good for your immune system, right? Well.
This is, this is a great convergence.
So traditional Chinese medicine and European medicine and medicine from
indigenous peoples all over the world haveve been using these mushrooms is that
now we're finding scientific evidence that folklorically the reputation of chaga
of raychi of these mushrooms, helping the immunity of humans.
This is translational medicine. So,
but bees is an animal clinicals study.
Bees have been stated as being besides Sophila, uh,
the second most well studidied animal in the world.
This is a animal clinical study past digestion past
what's called the cytone P four 50 pathway,
which is your detoxification pathway. Mostly in our liver.
All animals use the cytquine P four 50 pathway to break down toxins and is the
microbiome the blood. So this is actually, this is an animal clinical study,
and I think it's a gateway for us to take this as credible evidence,
that natural products could be more useful and offer a broader bios shield of
benefits than pure pharmaceuticals that go after one molecule with one target,
one set of S sectors.
They are immunological fields have developed in the complexity of nature.
This is what our foods are.
This is we we're inconstant biomolecularcation with the ecosystem.
We we've evolved in this complex, uh, uh, molecular environment.
And so our immune systems are upregulated through multiple stimuli.
And that's why I think these extracts of their complexity, the,
they build upon the complexity of natural systems that help our immune system.
So you have hope.
That this is something that we could eventually see being like a,
a peer reviewed, proven thing for human beings.
As well. Absolutely. I do believe that's on the near event horizon. Uh,
there's a lot of researchers now, close thing closer to you a little bit.
There is, I, I believe it's on the near horizon is something that we're gonna,
uh, see more and more. There's lots of clinical studies. I,
I pop for physicians. It's not no branding, no sounding of anything.
It's I populate a website called mushroom references.com. I,
I populate specifically for physic physicians.
I just spoke at singularity universities,
stand for medical school in front of a thousand physicians.
I try to make the bridge of the credibility of the science for physicians who
are just not educated yet, cuz they don't have the resources all the time.
So mushroom references.com. You can go to that website,
it's got hundreds of references, um, that then you can put in any,
you know, symptom or species, et cetera.
And you'd be able to find the peer where your in references.
There's about 30 references for instance, on soulsibin right now,
which is an area of, of research that I'm particularly focused on.